"ER" is arguably the best major health care-related television series since "M*A*S*H," and it is one of the most medically realistic dramatic series ever. When "ER" leaves prime time after well over a decade on the air, it will also have been one of the most popular shows in history. It will likely continue for years in syndication around the world. Accordingly, it will continue to have a tremendous influence on how the global public views health care, including nursing. "ER" has generally portrayed nurses as competent, caring health workers and avoided the most obvious stereotypes. But the show's physician-centric approach has led to a continuing failure to give viewers an accurate or complete picture of the vital role nursing actually plays in modern health care. Throughout the show's run, only one of its eight to ten major characters has been a nurse, with the rest physicians or medical students. The few nurses who do emerge from the wallpaper tend to be skilled, but fungible. With rare exceptions, they serve as subordinates and romantic foils for the heroic physicians, who consistently do key care tasks that nurses do in real life.

Since its inception in 1994, "ER" has focused on the professional development and personal lives of a shifting cast of emergency department (ED) and surgical physicians, and the personal life of one ED nurse, at "County General," the main public hospital in Chicago. Keys to the show's success have been its adrenaline-happy depiction of emergency procedures, complete with whirling camera work and faster-than-the-speed-of-light technical dialogue, an addictive soap opera approach to the intersecting lives of the main characters, and an amazing ability to regenerate itself with new characters--by the start of the 12th season, none of the original major characters remained. In addition, unlike some popular hospital dramas, "ER" has grappled seriously with many of the thorny issues raised by modern health care. It has also featured some inventive plotting, strong characters, good direction and fine acting. In recent years the show has slowed down creatively, and some digressions into the characters' non-work lives have grown tiresome. But "ER" is still capable of engaging work, and it remains very popular.
Synopsis (series)
In its early years, "ER" introduced the model that would prove so effective: dedicated, intelligent physicians staggering under the volume and complexity of cases seen in a public Level One Trauma Center, and trying to cope with the effects on their professional and personal lives. The show's plot is too intricate to summarize fully here, but major characters in the early years included: John Carter (Noah Wyle), a wide-eyed medical student from a wealthy family who would ultimately become chief ED resident, and who may end up as the most important character in the show's history; Mark Greene (Anthony Edwards), a sensitive, decent ED chief resident whose marriage to an attorney ultimately fell apart and who became, as an attending, the show's moral center; Kerry Weaver (Laura Innes), an insensitive, physically disabled ED senior resident who consistently put herself before her colleagues, and became chief of emergency medicine; Carol Hathaway (Julianna Margulies), whose suicide attempt was featured in the series premiere, a tough and committed ED nurse who became a nurse manager; Doug Ross (George Clooney), a hunky pediatric ED resident whose maverick ways would eventually lead to his departure from the hospital and the show, followed by long-time flame Hathaway; Peter Benton (Eriq La Salle), a coldly intense surgical resident who seemed to have a maximum allotment of one smile per season, which he didn't always use; Jeanie Boulet (Gloria Reuben), an earnest, HIV-positive physician's assistant; Susan Lewis (Sherry Stringfield), a down-to-earth ED resident who would leave the show for several seasons; Elizabeth Corday (Alex Kingston), a skilled English surgeon who would ultimately marry Greene; and the great Robert Romano (Paul McCrane), an acid-tongued, highly skilled surgical attending who would become the chief of medicine and who served, along with Weaver, as the show's enduring character-you-love-to-hate.

As the show got deeper into its first decade, these characters began to leave and be replaced, a process that has never stopped. Ross and later Hathaway departed for the Northwest to raise their twins, and Benton left for a job that would allow him to care for his young son. Perhaps most significantly, Greene succumbed to brain cancer, leaving Corday to raise their young daughter alone. Corday returned to County and stayed for some time. But she eventually quit and returned to England rather than accept a demotion for performing a noble but illegal organ donation between two HIV-positive people. Romano lost his arm to a helicopter rotor. Then he spiraled downward, unable to regain his surgical ability, until the show finally killed him off--by having a helicopter fall on him. Lewis returned and later became chief of emergency medicine. But she struggled to be taken seriously, and eventually left for Iowa with her flight nurse boyfriend and their baby, miffed at having been denied tenure. Weaver took advantage of Romano's decline to become chief of medicine, meanwhile coming out as a lesbian and having a baby with her firefighter partner, who soon died in the line of duty. Weaver carried on raising their baby, and eventually had a hip replacement that allowed her to walk unaided.

The show anointed Carter, now ED chief resident, to be Greene's successor as its moral and professional heart. In the middle years of the show, Carter thrived professionally, becoming an attending. But he did not do as well in his personal life, getting close to a marriage proposal to newcomer Abby Lockhart (right) (Maura Tierney) before pulling back, and making several soul-searching trips to provide care in war-torn Congo. Carter returned from one of these with new girlfriend Kem. Their baby was stillborn, and Kem fled, but Carter eventually realized his heart was no longer in Chicago. He left to join Kem at the end of the 11th season, though he returned in the 12th season for a few episodes set in Darfur (Sudan).

Lockhart became the show's most important character as Carter faded. At first, Lockhart was a somewhat confused, alcoholic OB nurse who was attending medical school. Then she settled in as the post-Hathaway major ED nurse character, and appeared committed to nursing. Then she reversed course again and went back to medical school. Lockhart stayed in the ED as an intern and then a resident, eventually becoming involved with newcomer Luka Kovac (Goran Visnjic). Kovac was a Croatian ED attending who replaced Ross as the show's designated hunk, but who had difficulty overcoming the death of his wife and children in the Balkans war. By the end of the 12th season, Lockhart and Kovac were expecting a baby, Lockhart was an increasingly assertive resident, and Kovac had replaced Lewis as chief of ED medicine.

The post-Lockhart major nurse character has been tough young single mother Sam Taggart (Linda Cardellini). Taggart is highly skilled. But most of her early plotlines focused on her romance with Kovac, and their joint efforts to raise her son Alex in spite of the negative influence of his father--a violent criminal who ultimately escaped from prison and kidnapped Taggart and their son, before Taggart herself executed him with his own gun. Taggart became assistant nurse manager in the early 12th season episodes with the highly skilled, aggressive ED nurse manager Eve Peyton. But Taggart's new role seemed to evaporate with Peyton's abrupt firing for decking an offensive patient on Christmas Eve.

Other new characters arrived, and some stayed. Jing-Mei Chen (Ming-Na), a contemporary of Carter's who had briefly appeared on the show near the start, returned as a resourceful but troubled senior resident. After a time she quit the ED to care for, and ultimately euthanize, her failing father. Michael Gallant (Sharif Atkins) was a bright, decent medical student whose education was funded by his commitment to the U.S. Army. He was ultimately sent to Iraq. Neela Rasgotra (Parminder Nagra) was a bright but bookish medical student who went through her last year of school alongside Lockhart. Rasgotra accepted a prestigious internship at the University of Michigan, but quickly bailed out and returned to County, slowly growing more confident in the ED. Rasgotra also maintained a tentative long-distance romance with Gallant. They actually married, but Gallant felt compelled to return to Iraq, where he was killed by a roadside bomb. Gregory Pratt (Mekhi Phifer), an often arrogant intern struggling to care for his mentally disabled brother, had a relationship with Chen. Pratt later showed signs of maturing, and he became far more skilled, but he refused to pursue the chief resident job. Ray Barnett (Shane West) was a brash young resident who struggled to balance his day job with his passion for playing in a rock band; he became more committed to medicine, and was fired from his band. And in the 12th season, borderline incompetent resident Archie Morris (Scott Grimes), who had been a minor character, became a major one. As the new chief resident, he generally remained an annoying, self-important weasel, though he also showed signs of greater skill and decency.

Since the beginning, the show has also featured a diverse group of recurring minor nurse characters. They have included Chunie Marquez (Laura Ceron), Haleh Adams (right) (Yvette Freeman), Lily Jarvik (Lily Mariye), Malik McGrath (Deezer D), Lydia Wright (Ellen Crawford), Yoshi Takata (Gedde Watanabe), and Connie Oligario (Connie Marie Brazelton). These characters have been well drawn, though in contrast to the major characters, we have learned little about their non-work lives. They are often busy at the periphery of a clinical scene, and they have occasionally played notable roles in specific plotlines. For instance, in the 12th season premiere, Marquez and Adams were seen playing a key role in coping with "July syndrome," which occurs each year when new physician interns start work.
Portrayal of Nursing (series)
"ER" has generally depicted nurses as competent, caring professionals with technical training who contribute to patient outcomes. Unlike many shows, it has resisted portraying them as Nurse Ratcheds, sex objects, or mute ciphers who appear occasionally to execute physician commands. It has shown some nurses to be men and members of minority groups, though all three of the major nurse characters have been straight white females. It has even shown nurse managers, though these depictions have been problematic.

Unfortunately, the show's limited efforts to highlight the work of nurses have been overwhelmed by the physician-centric vision that has dominated its first 267 episodes. This includes the hopelessly lopsided nurse : physician major character ratio, the regular portrayal of physicians doing and getting credit for exciting, important work that nurses do in real life, the frequent suggestions that nurses are physician subordinates, the intense focus on physician training while nurses' professional development is virtually ignored, the disproportionate emphasis on the one major nurse character's personal life, and the mishandling of slurs against nursing.

The Carol Hathaway, Abby Lockhart, and Sam Taggart characters are, along with "M*A*S*H"'s Margaret Houlihan and "China Beach"'s Colleen McMurphy, among the most influential portrayals of nurses in television history. The "ER" nurses are capable, nuanced and generally positive. Hathaway in particular was a strong character, and a nurse manager who at a few points actually confronted some real-life nursing issues. Although Lockhart was fairly weak early on, in later seasons she began to show signs of an actual nursing identity, explaining why she chose to remain a nurse rather than continue with medical school, teaching resident Gallant the ropes, and questioning some physician treatment decisions. Unfortunately, Lockhart appeared to grow frustrated with nursing and abruptly reversed course, returning to medical school. That suggested, wrongly, that nurses who pursue graduate education typically do so in medicine rather than nursing. Current major nurse character Taggart is a stronger character with obvious skills and a willingness to advocate for patients, though at first her toughness arguably veered into inappropriate aggression. Early in the 12th season, Eve Peyton made Taggart assistant nurse manager, but there has been no real mention of this since Peyton's departure. The recurring minor nurse characters likewise have been shown as caring professionals with skills.

Over the years, a few episodes of the show have made some effort to highlight nursing skills or concerns. The Hathaway era included a plotline about a nursing labor dispute, and one episode in which Hathaway (right) had to provide solo care to a critical patient in a dangerous hostage situation. Indeed, as a nurse manager, Hathaway confronted nursing administration over the floating of nurses away from ED, she started an ED clinic and hired a nurse practitioner to work there (that did not last long), and she even quit briefly over the effects of insurance on the ED's practice. At one point, Lockhart gave a brief but spirited defense of her nursing abilities, and at times she also engaged the physicians in meaningful care discussions (though her return to medical school suggested that this may have been part of her outgrowing nursing). Taggart's plotlines have included one where she provided significant autonomous care to a critically injured rape victim, albeit with disastrous results, and another where she actually made an important catch that an intern had missed--and received credit for it.

In its 12th season, the show presented the formidable, doctorally-prepared ED nurse manager Eve Peyton (right). She was not a major character, and she appeared in only six episodes. But it was an unprecedented portrait of a mostly autonomous nursing leader who was more or less the clinical peer of the attending physicians. Indeed, Peyton may have been the most clinically expert nurse character ever to appear on a major prime time U.S. show. She took the nursing staff firmly in hand, doling out advice, holding staff meetings, and telling senior physicians how they were screwing up. The show stressed her autonomy and professionalism. She pushed for systemic change in everything from ordering new supplies for cutting edge procedures to encouraging more hand washing. She brushed back physicians on her autonomy over the nursing staff--and even embarrassed them with superior clinical knowledge. After recruiting Taggart as assistant nurse manager, she briefly seemed to become something of a mentor to the younger nurse.

However, these isolated plotlines have been swallowed by the hundreds of hours "ER" has spent telling viewers around the world that only physician care matters much. For all its medical realism, the show remains a victim of what Kalisch and Kalisch have called "Marcus Welby syndrome": the inaccurate depiction of all significant health care being provided by physicians. The show has frequently shown physicians performing critical nursing tasks, such as triage, patient teaching, giving medications, providing psycho-social support, minute-to-minute care of the critically ill, and preventative care such as vaccinations. Nurses are not the only ones affected by this; the show commonly has physicians doing the jobs of social workers and respiratory therapists as well. The show's physician nursing is a natural result of its consistent practice of having only one of the eight to ten major characters be a nurse, when in a real life Level One Trauma Center the nurse-physician ratio would likely be about 5:5. The show's character ratio would make it difficult to portray the two professions' roles accurately even if the show wanted to.

Of course, the show does have some recurring minor nurse characters. But they have been used mostly to deliver brief patient status updates to physicians ("BP is 88 over 40!"), to absorb physician commands, and to act as dramatic foils for the main characters. These nurses rarely have substantial interactions with patients, and are almost never seen providing care without a physician. To our knowledge, they have not played a major overall role in any episode.

Moreover, the show has consistently portrayed nurses as subordinate to the physicians who dominate it, rather than as members of an autonomous profession--as exemplified by its frequent depictions of physicians managing, disciplining, and even firing nurses. It's true that Hathaway actually acted as a nurse manager at times in the early years, though she was at times presented as being under the authority of the ED attendings. Lockhart too was dubbed a "nurse manager," though she was forced into it and did next to nothing with the title. Now, it's Taggart's turn to ostensibly be "assistant nurse manager," but since Peyton's departure, Taggart has done no "managing," and it's not clear if there has even been a "nurse manager." Not surprisingly, the show has filled this nursing management void with physicians. It frequently tells viewers that physicians direct all care and essentially manage nurses, even if they may have hired some unseen nurse administrator to handle the paperwork. Some might expect better from a show that was created by a physician, and that has counted physicians as some of its key writers.

Of course, there were the six Eve Peyton episodes in the 12th season. These made crystal clear that Peyton, as ED nurse manager, did not report to ED physicians. But for a show that airs more than 20 original episodes each year, they were obviously a drop in the bucket. Moreover, the episodes' depiction of nursing autonomy was itself problematic. It suggested that Peyton reported to chief of medicine Kerry Weaver. And although we were not too concerned at first that Peyton was seen as a rule-bound "bitch"--the show has had its share of physician managers in that mold--Peyton's final episode was a crude and implausible swerve into extreme battleaxe territory. In that episode, Peyton got dumped by her boyfriend; decked an offensive patient dressed as Santa Claus and poured his own urine on him, with no physical provocation and no regret; was fired in a matter of hours; and bid farewell to the ED staff with standard PhD-type phrases like "bite me," "screw yourselves," and "you all suck." Peyton was at least fired by a "nursing supervisor" rather than a physician. But the episode spoiled even that nod at nursing autonomy by having ED medical chief Kovac send three of Peyton's nurses home because he foresaw a light shift, and call them "support staff" as he did so, with no contradiction.

The show has also given viewers little sense of the independent, science-based assessment and intervention that is central to the nursing process. In recent seasons it has occasionally depicted nurses in their patient advocacy role, which can entail questioning physicians' care plans and catching their mistakes. But this has almost always been when the physician is somehow impaired, as by illness or inexperience; otherwise, the nurses tend to lose out in such discussions. "ER" has not often shown a nurse acting as a primary force in a patient's outcome. Instead, with rare exceptions, physicians tend to receive all the credit or blame for the results.

Apart from the Peyton episodes, the show has paid virtually no attention to the professional development of nurses, such as through advanced nursing degrees, research or scholarship. Nurse characters have limited opportunities to display their special knowledge and skills, especially since nursing students are never shown. This stands in stark contrast to the show's obsessive focus on each stage and feature of the physicians' professional development, from medical students through the chief of medicine. Tellingly, Lockhart finally chose a medical career and Hathaway flirted with one, as if to prove that they were worthy of the show's attention despite "only" being nurses. All three major nurse characters have also spent much of their time in romances with the show's physicians, and in a number of episodes, a key role of the minor nurse characters has been to comment idly on the lives of the physicians.

The show has also developed a pattern of mishandling slurs against nursing. Typically, it will have a character who is socially unskilled--perhaps an abrasive attending like Romano or Weaver, an unhappy patient, or a visiting schoolchild--express contempt for nursing. Perhaps the character will suggest that nursing is all about bedpans, or call a female physician a nurse as an insult, or suggest that nurses don't know anything about the prognosis of a major stroke victim, or express fear at the thought of being a nurse but joy at the prospect of being a physician. In response, a nurse character will look hurt, but she will not say anything. Or the remark will be made outside of any nurse's earshot, and no one will question it. The show may think it's helping viewers see how hard it is to be a nurse. But the persistent failure to have any character rebut such slurs will likely lead many viewers to conclude that while the speaker may be mean, what he or she says is essentially correct. It's just not the kind of thing nice people actually say. There was one notable slur reversal. At one point, Peyton failed to get Kovac to come help a resident with a critical patient. So Peyton did the required cutting-edge procedure herself, teaching the residents as she went, then advised the late-arriving Kovac that if he needed her, she'd be off changing a bedpan.

Finally, though the show prides itself on being on the cutting edge of social issues and has referred to the budget crisis in public hospitals, it has still paid no serious attention to the current nursing shortage or the short-staffing that drives it. This is a shortage that has for some years been a major threat to global health, but that "ER"'s generally inadequate portrayal of nursing has done little to address. The Abby Lockhart character did suggest in passing in 2003 that lower nurse staffing would likely cause patient deaths --in the context of an episode in which chief of ED medicine Romano had unilaterally fired a number of nurses. And one of the 2005 Eve Peyton episodes included a fleeting reference to the hospital's agreement to implement one-to-four nurse staffing ratios. But that seemed to be a quick way to set up new assistant nurse manager Taggart, whose first big task was to fire Haleh Adams for working excessive overtime. That plot also wrongly suggested that the big problem now is some nurses seeking to work too many extra shifts, rather than the reverse problem of mandation, in which hospitals force nurses to work excessive hours in order to cut costs. The real problem of short staffing has never been explored.

Over its 12 seasons, "ER" has shown some real appreciation for the role nurses play in modern emergency care. However, that recognition almost invariably gives way to its obsessive focus on the training and practice of physicians. In real life, nurses, physicians and other health professionals have complementary and interdependent work relationships. But on "ER," the bottom line has usually been that the physicians' role is unrealistically large and robust, and the nurses' role correspondingly small and flat. In dramatic terms, the physicians are the tragic heroes, while the nurses are essentially members of the chorus.



Read more: http://www.truthaboutnursing.org/media/tv/2003prior/er.html#ixzz3UAP8Gzp0